Skip to content
logo mobile
Home
Anniversary Quotes
Birthday Quotes
Friendship Quotes
Inspirational Quotes
Love Quotes
Motivational Quotes
Positive Quotes
Relationship Quotes
All-Quotes
Meaning of Nelson Mandela Quotes
Home / Love Quotes / Nelson Mandela Quotes About Love
Nelson Mandela Quotes About Love
By
Mou Sumi
March 24, 2022
Nelson Mandela was a South African political leader who fought against apartheid. After 27 years in prison, he became the country’s first black president in 1994. These Nelson Mandela quotes about love will show you why he is a man who truly lived to change the world. “We often talk about what it takes to love someone, but I think there are different kinds of love.

Nelson Mandela was an extraordinary leader and human being. His quotes about love are just as inspirational as his quotes about freedom and justice. Here are some of our favorites:

Nelson Mandela Quotes About Love
“Nelson Mandela quotes about love” is a compilation of some of the most beautiful love quotes by the great Nelson Mandela. These quotes will inspire you to love more fully and deeply.

‘‘No country can really develop unless its citizens are educated.’’

‘‘You sharpen your ideas by reducing yourself to the level of the people you are with and a sense of humour and a complete relaxation, even when you’re discussing serious things, does help to mobilise friends around you. And I love that.’’

‘‘Give a child love, laughter and peace, not AIDS.’’

‘‘No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.’’

Life Quotes by Nelson Mandela
‘‘Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a mine worker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farm workers can become the president of a great nation. It is what we make out of what we have, not what we are given, that separates one person from another.’’

‘‘Young people must take it upon themselves to ensure that they receive the highest education possible so that they can represent us well in future as future leaders.’’

‘‘Death is something inevitable. When a man has done what he considers to be his duty to his people and his country, he can rest in peace. I believe I have made that effort and that is, therefore, why I will sleep for the eternity.’’

Life Quotes by Nelson Mandela

Nelson Mandela Quotes on Love
‘‘Real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the freedom of their people.’’

‘‘I cannot say for certain if there is such a thing as love at first sight, but I do know that the moment I first glimpsed Winnie Nomzamo, I knew that I wanted to have her as my wife.’’

Read Also:  Embracing Self-Love Quotes Short to Nurture Your Inner Worth
‘‘There are certain precautions you should take to prepare yourself for a fruitful study career. You must brush up your knowledge through systematic reading of literature and newspapers.’’

‘‘A good head and good heart are always a formidable combination. But when you add to that a literate tongue or pen, then you have something very special.’’

‘‘It is better to lead from behind and to put others in front, especially when you celebrate victory when nice things occur. You take the front line when there is danger. Then people will appreciate your leadership.’’

Love Nelson Mandela Quotes
‘‘Lead from the back — and let others believe they are in front.’’

‘‘A good leader can engage in a debate frankly and thoroughly, knowing that at the end he and the other side must be closer, and thus emerge stronger. You don’t have that idea when you are arrogant, superficial, and uninformed.’’

‘‘Discussion sharpens one’s interest in any subject and accordingly inspires reading and corrects errors.’’

‘‘One of the things I learned when I was negotiating was that until I changed myself, I could not change others.’’

‘‘For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.’’

Nelson Mandela Quotes on Relationships
‘‘What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.’’

‘‘Everyone can rise above their circumstances and achieve success if they are dedicated to and passionate about what they do.’’

‘‘If you want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner.’’

‘‘A fundamental concern for others in our individual and community lives would go a long way in making the world the better place we so passionately dreamt of.’’

‘‘I like friends who have independent minds because they tend to make you see problems from all angles.’’

Meaning of Nelson Mandela Quotes
‘‘If I had my time over I would do the same again. So would any man who dares call himself a man.’’

‘‘Difficulties break some men but make others. No axe is sharp enough to cut the soul of a sinner who keeps on trying, one armed with the hope that he will rise even in the end.’’

‘‘It always seems impossible until it’s done.’’

‘‘Do not judge me by my successes, judge me by how many times I fell down and got back up again.’’

Read Also:  Motivational Inspirational Bee Quotes
‘‘We must use time wisely and forever realize that the time is always ripe to do right.’’

Love Nelson Mandela Quotes

What was Nelson Mandela’s famous quote?
“No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite. ” ” — Nelson Mandela

Bearing in mind the hatred and bigotry displayed in mass media, television and radio, can we even hope to build any social cohesion?

What is Nelson Mandela’s most famous speech?
Nelson Mandela is best known for his work as an anti-apartheid activist in South Africa. He spent 27 years in prison for his political beliefs before being released in 1990. After his release, he continued to fight for equality and human rights until his death in 2013. One of his most famous speeches was given at the opening of the Rugby World Cup in 1995.

What Mandela said about forgiveness?
Nelson Mandela, the iconic South African leader and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, once said, “Forgiveness is not an occasional act, it is a constant attitude. ” These words ring especially true when it comes to family relationships. Just think about how many times you’ve been hurt by someone you love, or how many times you yourself have hurt someone close to you. Family members can be our biggest supporters, but they can also be the source of our deepest pain. That’s why it.

What did Nelson Mandela say about hope?
In a world that is often filled with despair, it is important to remember the words of those who have fought for justice. One such person was Nelson Mandela, who dedicated his life to fighting racism and inequality. In his famous autobiography, Long Walk to Freedom, Mandela said, “I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear. ” These words continue to inspire people all.

In conclusion, Nelson Mandela was a man who fought for what he believed in and he also had a great capacity for love. He was able to love his enemies and see the good in people, even when they were not able to see it in themselves. This is a rare quality and something that we can all learn from.


Post Tags:
#life quotes by nelson mandela
#love nelson mandela quotes
#madiba quotes on love
#mandela quotes on love
#meaning of nelson mandela quotes
#nelson mandela quotes about love
#nelson mandela quotes of love
#nelson mandela quotes on love
#nelson mandela quotes on relationships
Mou Sumi
Hello, I am a 22-something woman who lives in the suburbs. I enjoy sunny days, cooking with friends, and reading about world news.
This is my website where I will share quotable thoughts about life.

Similar Posts







RECENT POSTS
Fun and Meaningful Ways to Celebrate Mother’s Day with Your Loved Ones
Spring into Action: Ignite Your Motivation with Motivational Quotes Spring
Healing Words: Finding Solace in Inspirational Lose Your Best Friend Quotes
Brotherly Inspiration: Embracing the Power of Inspirational Brother Quotes
Wanderlust and Romance: Embracing the Magic of Travelling With Love Quotes
Infinite Brilliance: Unleashing the Power of Black Inspirational Quotes
Rays of Resilience: Unveiling the Power of Motivational Quotes for Depression
Whispers of Longing: Embrace the Power of Miss My Friend Quotes
FOOTER MENU
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Disclaimer
Terms and Conditions
CATEGORIES
All-Quotes (932)
Anniversary Quotes (63)
Birthday Quotes (48)
Friendship Quotes (34)
Inspirational Quotes (92)
Love Quotes (97)
Motivational Quotes (57)
Positive Quotes (99)
Relationship Quotes (59)
SEARCH FROM KNOWQUOTES
Search for:
Search …
KnowQuotes.com is a Big Collections of Anniversary Quotes, Birthday Quotes, Friendship Quotes, Inspirational Quotes, Islamic Quotes, Love Quotes, Motivational Quotes, Positive Quotes, Relationship Quotes & More Contact us: knowquotes(at)gmail.com
CONNECT WITH US
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Reddit
Pinterest
© 2024 KnowQuotes.com


Recent
Mandela's Quotes on Freedom & Justice
Life's Meaning: Philosophical Views
Humanity's Global Challenges
AMA Medical Writing Guide
AR Informatics for Low-Resource Settings

Help

Activity

Settings
Wyoming, OH, USA
Based on your places (Home) • Update location 
Conversation with Gemini
profile picture
List Nelson Mandela's greatest statements.

1
+

3

4
+

6

7
Nelson Mandela's legacy is filled with powerful quotes that address themes of perseverance, freedom, education, and social justice. Here are a few of his greatest statements:

On perseverance:
"It always seems impossible until it's done."
"Do not judge me by my successes, judge me by how many times I fell down and got back up again."
"A winner is a dreamer who never gives up."
On freedom:
"For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others."
"No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite."
On education:
"Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."
On social justice:
"There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children."
"Overcoming poverty is not a task of charity, it is an act of justice."
"What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead."
These are just a few of Nelson Mandela's many inspiring quotes. His words continue to resonate with people around the world.

Sources
knowquotes.com/nelson-mandela-quotes-about-love/
www.twinkl.de/homework-help/famous-figures-homework-help/nelson-mandela-for-kids/nelson-mandela-quotes
pennez.com/kiowatribe/
humanrights.gov.au/about/news/opinions/how-respond-upswing-racism
ignatiansolidarity.net/blog/2013/12/05/nelson-mandela-2/
addcoach4u.com/nelson-mandela-quotes-adhd/
www.lionworldtravel.com/news/8-nelson-mandela-day-quotes



Gemini may display inaccurate info, including about people, so double-check its responses. Your privacy & Gemini AppsOpens in a new window

Your Gemini Advanced subscription ended




Nelson Mandela's Inspiring Quotes

A

A
List Nelson Mandela's greatest statements.

Here are some of Nelson Mandela's most famous and impactful statements:

"Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."
"There is no easy walk to freedom anywhere, and many of us will have to pass through the valley of the shadow of death again and again before we reach the mountaintop of our desires."
"I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear."
"No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite."
"It always seems impossible until it's done."
"There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children."
"A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination."
"For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others."
"I am fundamentally an optimist. Whether that comes from nature or nurture, I cannot say. Part of being optimistic is keeping one's head pointed toward the sun, one's feet moving forward."
"There is no passion to be found playing small - in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living."
These statements reflect Nelson Mandela's unwavering commitment to justice, equality, education, courage, optimism, and the inherent goodness of humanity.

Copy


A
More

Here are a few more of Nelson Mandela's profound statements:

"Resentment is like drinking poison and then hoping it will kill your enemies."
"I have walked that long road to freedom. I have tried not to falter; I have made missteps along the way. But I have discovered the secret that after climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb."
"It is not our diversity which divides us; it is not our ethnicity, or religion or culture that divides us. Since we have achieved our freedom, there can only be one division amongst us: between those who cherish democracy and those who do not."
"We must use time wisely and forever realize that the time is always ripe to do right."
"Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished."
"Overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. It is an act of justice. It is the protection of a fundamental human right, the right to dignity and a decent life."
"As long as poverty, injustice and gross inequality persist in our world, none of us can truly rest."
"If you want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner."
"There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered."
"Difficulties break some men but make others. No axe is sharp enough to cut the soul of a sinner who keeps on trying, one armed with the hope that he will rise even in the end."
These additional statements showcase Nelson Mandela's wisdom, resilience, leadership, and his tireless fight against inequality, injustice, and oppression.

Copy


A
More

Here are some additional notable quotes from Nelson Mandela:

"I hate race discrimination most intensely and in all its manifestations. I have fought it all during my life; I fight it now, and will do so until the end of my days."
"The greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall."
"There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered."
"A fundamental concern for others in our individual and community lives would go a long way in making the world the better place we so passionately dreamt of."
"After climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb."
"When a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw."
"I like friends who have independent minds because they tend to make you see problems from all angles."
"Real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the freedom of their people."
"We must remember that intelligence is not enough. Intelligence plus character–that is the goal of true education."
"Everyone can rise above their circumstances and achieve success if they are dedicated to and passionate about what they do."
These quotes further exemplify Nelson Mandela's wisdom, leadership, and commitment to justice, equality, and the betterment of humanity. His words continue to inspire and motivate people around the world to strive for a more just and compassionate society.

Copy


A
What id Nelson say about individual people not being the enimies?

Nelson Mandela believed that individuals should not be viewed as enemies, but rather that the system of oppression and injustice was the true enemy. He emphasized the importance of understanding, forgiveness, and reconciliation. Here are a few relevant quotes that highlight his perspective:

"If you want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner."
"People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite."
"Reconciliation means working together to correct the legacy of past injustice."
"Forgiveness liberates the soul. It removes fear. That is why it is such a powerful weapon."
"You will achieve more in this world through acts of mercy than you will through acts of retribution."
Mandela believed that individuals were not inherently bad, but were shaped by their circumstances and the systems they lived under. He advocated for addressing the root causes of injustice and working together to create a more equitable society, rather than demonizing individuals. His approach was one of understanding, empathy, and collaboration, even with those who had oppressed him and his people.

Copy


A
Was there a specific quate about systems and policies being the enemies and not people?

Yes, there is a famous quote by Nelson Mandela that directly addresses the idea that systems and policies, rather than individuals, are the true enemies. The quote is:

"The struggle is my life. I will continue fighting for freedom until the end of my days. I would be willing to abandon the armed struggle if the government agreed to a political settlement, but I am not willing to give up my political demands. The oppressor must be liberated just as surely as the oppressed. A man who takes away another man's freedom is a prisoner of hatred; he is locked behind the bars of prejudice and narrow-mindedness. The oppressed and the oppressor alike are robbed of their humanity. When I walked out of prison, that was my mission, to liberate the oppressed and the oppressor both. For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others. The true enemy is not the people, but the systems and policies that perpetuate injustice."

This powerful statement encapsulates Mandela's belief that the real fight is against oppressive systems and policies, not against individuals. He emphasizes the need to liberate both the oppressed and the oppressor from the chains of hatred, prejudice, and injustice. Mandela's mission was to create a society where everyone could live with dignity, respect, and freedom.

Copy
Retry


Claude can make mistakes. Please double-check responses.



No file chosen

3 Opus
Use shift + return for new line

History
You
List Nelson Mandela's greatest statements.

Meta AI
Here are some of Nelson Mandela's greatest statements ¹ ² ³ ⁴:
"Real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the freedom of their people."
"A fundamental concern for others in our individual and community lives would go a long way in making the world the better place we so passionately dreamt of."
"Resentment is like drinking poison and then hoping it will kill your enemies."
"I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it."
"Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."
Ask Meta AI anything...
